---
title: Upgrade ServiceControl from Version 6.4 to Version 6.5
summary: Instructions on how to upgrade ServiceControl from version 6.4 to 6.5
reviewed: 2025-03-13
isUpgradeGuide: true
component: ServiceControl
---

ServiceControl version 6.5 introduces changes for instances that use the RabbitMQ transport. Other transports are not affected.

## RabbitMQ management API access is now required

ServiceControl now relies on having access to the RabbitMQ management API. The [RabbitMQ management plugin](https://www.rabbitmq.com/docs/management) must be enabled, and the plugin's [statistics and metrics collection must not be disabled](https://www.rabbitmq.com/docs/management#disable-stats). 

By default, ServiceControl will infer the required settings from the connection string. If custom settings are needed, they can be specified with the `ManagementApiUrl`, `ManagementApiUserName`, and `ManagementApiPassword` [connection string options](/servicecontrol/transports.md#rabbitmq).

If custom settings are required to successfully access the management API, they must be added to the instance connection string before upgrading to ensure that the upgrade is successful and the instance can start properly.

Connection strings using the [amqp URI](https://www.rabbitmq.com/docs/uri-spec) format are not compatible with ServiceControl's connection string options, so the connection string must be manually converted to the format defined by the [transport](/transports/rabbitmq/connection-settings.md#connection-string-options) before adding the management API options.

> [!NOTE]
> If [usage reporting](/servicecontrol/servicecontrol-instances/configuration.md#usage-reporting-when-using-the-rabbitmq-transport) settings have previously been configured in an error instance's `ServiceControl.exe.config` file, these settings will be detected and migrated to the equivalent connection string options automatically as part of the upgrade process.
>
>This migration will not happen if the connection string is using the amqp URI format. The connection string must be manually converted first before upgrading to enable the settings migration.
>
>Since usage reporting settings are exclusive to error instances, audit and monitoring instances will never have settings that can be migrated automatically.

## Delivery limit validation of ServiceControl queues is enabled by default

[Delivery limit validation](/transports/rabbitmq/connection-settings.md#delivery-limit-validation) is enabled by default for ServiceControl queues.

If validation needs to be disabled, the `ValidateDeliveryLimits` [connection string option](/servicecontrol/transports.md#rabbitmq) must be added to the instance connection string before upgrading to ensure that the upgrade is successful and the instance can start properly.