### Settings

* `EntityMaximumSize`: The maximum entity size in GB. The value must correspond to a valid value for the namespace type. Defaults to 5. See [the Microsoft documentation on quotas and limits](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-bus-messaging/service-bus-quotas) for valid values.
* `EnablePartitioning`: Partitioned entities offer higher availability, reliability, and throughput over conventional non-partitioned queues and topics. For more information about partitioned entities [see the Microsoft documentation on partitioned messaging entities](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-bus-messaging/service-bus-partitioning).
* `AutoDeleteOnIdle`: A `TimeSpan` representing the [AutoDeleteOnIdle](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-bus-messaging/advanced-features-overview#autodelete-on-idle) setting for instance-specific input queues (such as when using [`MakeInstanceUniquelyAddressable`](/nservicebus/messaging/routing.md#make-instance-uniquely-addressable)) created by the transport. This value is the maximum time period that a queue can remain [idle](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-bus-messaging/message-expiration#idleness) before Azure Service Bus automatically deletes it. Defaults to `TimeSpan.MaxValue` in Azure Service Bus if this setting is not specified within the transport. The minimum allowed value is 5 minutes. The transport will not apply this setting to topics or subscriptions as these are considered shared infrastructure (along with shared queues such as error and audit).
* `AutoForwardDeadLetteredMessagesToErrorQueue`: When enabled, dead-lettered messages from transport-created receive queues are auto-forwarded to the configured NServiceBus error queue. It's recommended to enable this option to centralize failed-message handling for dead-letter queues. For general Azure Service Bus forwarding behavior, see [Enable auto forwarding for Azure Service Bus queues and subscriptions](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-bus-messaging/enable-auto-forward). This setting is nullable; when not explicitly configured, a warning is logged at runtime if a message is dead-lettered.
* `HierarchyNamespaceOptions`: Beginning version 6.1, [hierarchical entities](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/servicebus/addressing-and-protocol) can be [configured using a hierarchical namespace](#entity-creation-hierarchy-namespace). Setting this with the required `HierarchyNamespace` property will prefix all entity paths in the format `{HierarchyNamespace}/{original-entity-path}`. Defaults to `HierarchyNamespaceOptions.None`, which disables prefixing with a hierarchy namespace.
* `MaxDeliveryCount`: The maximum delivery count applied to queues created during endpoint infrastructure setup. Defaults to `int.MaxValue`, which effectively disables Azure Service Bus's built-in delivery count limits and defers all retry decisions to NServiceBus recoverability. The Azure Service Bus Emulator requires a value of `10`. When choosing a value, ensure it is high enough to allow the configured recoverability policy to eventually move the message to the error queue, but not so high that it creates effectively infinite retries.
* `ThrowOnMissingTopicWhenPublishing`: When enabled, the transport throws an `InvalidOperationException` when publishing to a non-existent topic. The transport always logs a warning when publishing to a non-existent topic. Defaults to `false` for backward compatibility.
