## Current Limitations

- Since the Scheduler is non-durable, if the process restarts, all scheduled tasks (that are created during the endpoint's startup) are recreated and given new identifiers. Tasks scheduled before the restart that arrive at the endpoint queue will not be found although a message will be written to the log as information.
- Scheduled tasks, once created, cannot be canceled or changed.
- While the task repeat interval can be specified, setting a specific time for the task to run is not supported by the Scheduler.
- Each scheduled task will be executed in a new task generated by the Task Parallel Library using [`Task.Factory.StartNew`](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-au/library/dd321439.aspx).
  - There will be no transaction scope by default although one can be created if needed.
  - If the time for a task is longer than the configured interval then the same action may be executed on different threads concurrently. If an action is not thread safe then the action needs to handle any synchronization logic, for example using a Mutex.
- Since the Scheduler uses the queuing mechanism, it does have some side effects on the timelines of scheduled tasks. When a task is scheduled to be run at a given time it is not "executed at that time", it is instead "queued at that time" to be executed. In most cases this distinction will have no noticeable effect on the behavior of the scheduling API. However in high load systems the fact that a scheduled task is added to the back of the queue can result in a noticeable delay between the "time the task has been request to be run" and the "time the task is actually executed".
- The Scheduler API does not support scaling out the endpoint or doing a side-by-side deployment of an endpoint. When there are multiple instances of the endpoint that are running on the same machine, while using a non-broker transport such as MSMQ, or when there are scaling out the endpoint instances while using a broker transport such as RabbitMQ, these endpoint instances share the same input queue. Since each endpoint maintains its own created tasks in memory, when the specified time is up and the task is queued at the endpoint, any of the endpoint instances that are currently running can dequeue that message. If an endpoint that did not originally create this task happened to dequeue this message in order to execute it, it will not find the task in its list.

WARNING: This will result in the task not being executed but also not being rescheduled.