---
title: Scheduling
summary: Schedule a task or an action/lambda, to be executed repeatedly at a given interval.
component: Core
tags:
- Scheduler
related:
 - samples/scheduling
redirects:
- nservicebus/scheduling-with-nservicebus
---

The Scheduler is a lightweight/non-durable API that helps schedule a task that needs to be executed repeatedly based on a specified interval. The scheduling infrastructure leverages the approach of reliable messaging with the NServiceBus core functionality. This allows scheduling to include features such as built in retries and forwarding to the error queue.


## How the scheduler works

The scheduler holds a list of tasks scheduled in a non-durable in-memory dictionary. In Versions 4 and below tasks are scoped per `AppDomain`. In Versions 5 and above they are scoped per endpoint instance.

When a new scheduled task is created it is given a unique ID and stored in the endpoint's in-memory dictionary. The ID for the task is sent in a message to the Timeout Manager, setting the message to be deferred with the specified time interval. When the specified time has elapsed, the Timeouts dispatcher returns the message containing the ID to the endpoint with the scheduled task ID. The endpoint then uses that ID to fetch and invoke the task from its internal list of tasks and executes it.


## Example usage

The difference between the following two examples is that in the latter a name is given for the task. The name can be used for logging.

snippet:ScheduleTask


## When not to use it

 * As soon as the task starts to get some branching logic (`if` or `switch` statements) or business logic is added, instead of a simple message send, consider moving to a [saga](/nservicebus/sagas).
 * Often, instead of polling for a certain state using the Scheduler API, it is more appropriate to publish an event when the expected state transition occurs, and the necessary action is then taken by a message handler which is subscribed to it.
 * When there are requirements that are not currently supported by the Scheduler API. For example, scaling out the  tasks, canceling or deleting a scheduled task, doing a side-by-side deployment of a scheduled task as outlined in the following section.


## Current Limitations

 * Since the scheduler is non-durable, if the process restarts, all scheduled tasks (that are created during the endpoint's startup) are recreated and given new identifiers. Tasks scheduled before the restart that arrive at the endpoint queue will not be found although a message will be written to the log as information.
 * Scheduled tasks, once created, cannot be canceled or changed.
 * While the task repeat interval can be specified, setting a specific time for the task to run is not supported by the scheduler.
 * Each scheduled task will be executed in a new task generated by the Task Parallel Library using `Task.Factory.StartNew(Action)`.
   * There will be no transaction scope by default although one can be created if needed.
   * If the time for a task is longer than the configured interval then the same action may be executed on different threads concurrently. If an action is not thread safe then the action needs to handle any synchronization logic, for example using a Mutex.
 * Since the scheduler uses the queuing mechanism, it does have some side effects on the timelines of scheduled tasks. When a task is scheduled to be run at a given time it is not "executed at that time", it is instead "queued at that time" to be executed. In most cases this distinction will have no noticeable effect on the behavior of the scheduling API. However in high load systems the fact that a scheduled task is added to the back of the queue can result in a noticeable delay between the "time the task has been request to be run" and the "time the task is actually executed".
 * The scheduler API does not support scaling out the endpoint or doing a side-by-side deployment of an endpoint. When there are multiple instances of the endpoint that are running on the same machine, while using a non-broker transport such as MSMQ, or when there are scaling out the endpoint instances while using a broker transport such as RabbitMQ, these endpoint instances share the same input queue. Since each endpoint maintains its own created tasks in memory, when the specified time is up and the task is queued at the endpoint, any of the endpoint instances that are currently running can dequeue that message. If an endpoint that did not originally create this task happened to dequeue this message in order to execute it, it will not find the task in its list.

WARNING: This will result in the task not being executed but also not being rescheduled.


## Converting a scheduled task into a saga

In order to store these tasks in a durable way and support either a scale out scenario or a side-by-side deployment scenario, use a [saga](/nservicebus/sagas) instead. Think of the scheduler as a never ending saga.

Converting the scheduler code to a saga, with the code for the example usage of the scheduler API shown above:

Create a saga for the specified task name that is started by a message. Create a new message if necessary. In this example, the message that starts the saga is `StartMyCustomTaskSaga`. Send this message on startup, using:

snippet: StartCustomTaskSaga

If this was not done using the API with the task name, then name the saga appropriately. In this example, the saga is called `MyCustomTaskSaga`.

Create the required saga data and set the task name as a unique ID for the saga.

Setup the mapping for the saga. This is done so that there will only be one instance of the saga for a specified task name, so as to avoid duplicate tasks being scheduled if the endpoint is restarted.

In the `Handle()` method of the startup message, request a timeout. This would be the interval that was specified in the Schedule API. Request the timeout only if it hasn't been requested already to avoid duplicate tasks that can be scheduled if the endpoint is restarted.

Create a timeout class and add the `IHandleTimeouts<T>` in the saga definition.

Define the action that needs to occur in the `Timeout` method.

In the following example, the endpoint upon startup will send itself a `StartMyCustomSaga` message to initiate the saga. The saga will request a timeout for 5 minutes if the task hasn't already been scheduled and, in the timeout handler, it will send the `CallLegacySystem` message that will execute some task and also request another timeout for the specified interval.

snippet:ScheduleTaskSaga

NOTE: To cancel a scheduled task, create a new message, e.g. `CancelMyCustomSaga` and modify the above saga to also handle this message, which will end the saga using [MarkAsComplete() method](/nservicebus/sagas/#ending-a-long-running-process).