---
title: Upgrade Version 4 to 5
summary: Instructions on how to upgrade NServiceBus from version 4 to 5
reviewed: 2018-09-14
component: Core
redirects:
 - nservicebus/upgradeguides/4to5
 - nservicebus/messaging/memory-transport
isUpgradeGuide: true
upgradeGuideCoreVersions:
 - 4
 - 5
---


include: upgrade-major


## Move to .NET 4.5

The minimum .NET version for NServiceBus version 5 is .NET 4.5.

**This means consumers must update all projects that reference NServiceBus to .NET 4.5 before updating to NServiceBus version 5. **

Note that smaller changes are easier to verify; as such it is recommended to update to .NET 4.5 and perform a full migration to production before updating to NServiceBus version 5.

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2078


## Interfaces assembly and NuGet deprecated

The NServiceBus interfaces dll was created to allow a smaller dependency when creating a messages assembly. With the introduction of message conventions that is no longer required. As such `NServiceBus.dll` has been merged into NServiceBus.Core.dll. Also the `NServiceBus.Interfaces` NuGet has been deprecated.

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2113


### If using NuGet packages

No extra work should be required. A normal NuGet update should result in no `NServiceBus.Interfaces` NuGet being used and version 5 of the `NServiceBus` NuGet being used. This is achieved through some [NuGet sleight of hand](
https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2113).

If for some reason this sleight of hand fails, then manually remove usages of the `NServiceBus.Interfaces` NuGet and ensure that version 5 of the `NServiceBus` NuGet is used.


### If using manual references

 * Remove all references to `NServiceBus.dll`
 * Update all references of `NServiceBus.Core.dll` to version 5


### Reflection

Reflection calls that makes assumptions on the assembly name of `NServiceBus.dll` must be updated and re-tested.


### Binding redirects

Any binding redirects pointing to `NServiceBus.dll` should be removed.


### Use of interfaces and attributes from NServiceBus.Interfaces.dll

The following have been moved into `NServiceBus.Core.dll` (part of the `NServiceBus` NuGet)

 * `IMessage`
 * `IEvent`
 * `ICommand`
 * `ExpressAttribute`
 * `DataBusProperty<T>` and `IDataBusProperty`
 * `TimeToBeReceivedAttribute`
 * `WireEncryptedString`
 * `ExpressAttribute`

If these markers are still required, they can be referenced via `NServiceBus.Core.dll`.

If "no reference" is required, the equivalent conventions can be used instead.

snippet: 4to5MessageConventions


## Configure API

The configuration API has been modified to fix several bugs related to method invocation order. The new API takes an `Action` that configures a `ConfigurationBuilder`.

snippet: 4to5CustomConfigOverrides

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/356


## Transport definitions for UseTransport have been renamed

When using `UseTransport<T>` the transport definition types have been suffixed with `Transport`.

snippet: 4to5UseTransport


## Logging

NServiceBus now has sensible defaults for logging built in.

NLog and Log4net integration have been extracted to external NuGet packages. For more information see [Logging in NServiceBus](/nservicebus/logging/)


## Obsolete sending and publishing batches of messages together in a single call

Batch sending of messages has been removed in NServiceBus version 5.

Previous code such as:

```cs
bus.Send(new Message1(), new Message2(), new Message3());
```

should be changed to:

```cs
bus.Send(new Message1());
bus.Send(new Message2());
bus.Send(new Message3());
```

The full list of replacements is below

Old Method | Replacement Method
:--- |:---
Publish<T>(T[] messages); | Publish<T>(T message);
SendLocal(object[] messages); | SendLocal(object message);
Send(object[] messages); | Send(object message);
Send(string destination, object[] messages); | Send(string destination, object message);
Send(Address address, object[] messages); | Send(Address address, object message);
Send(string destination, string correlationId, object[] messages); | Send(string destination, string correlationId, object message);
SendToSites(IEnumerable<string> siteKeys, object[] messages); | SendToSites(IEnumerable<string> siteKeys, object message);
Defer(TimeSpan delay, object[] messages); | Defer(TimeSpan delay, object message);
Defer(DateTime processAt, object[] messages); | Defer(DateTime processAt, object message);
Reply(object[] messages); | Reply(object message);

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/1346


## InMemory transport removal

Due to significant confusion about the usage of this API, the InMemory transport has been removed in NServiceBus version 5. People using this API should either

 * Move to `Publish` or
 * Call the required methods explicitly

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2084

As an alternative, consider using an implemeantion of the [mediator pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mediator_pattern) or the [event aggregator pattern](https://martinfowler.com/eaaDev/EventAggregator.html):

 * [MediatR](https://github.com/jbogard/MediatR)
 * [Mediator.Net](https://github.com/mayuanyang/Mediator.Net)
 * [Reactive.EventAggregator](https://github.com/shiftkey/Reactive.EventAggregator)


## Remove IMessageModule in favor of IManageUnitsOfWork

In NServiceBus version 4, an improved abstraction (`IManageUnitsOfWork`) was introduced and `IMessageModule` was deprecated.

In version 5, this change is being completed with the remove of `IMessageModule`.

Uses of `IMessageModule` should be replaced with [`IManageUnitsOfWork`](/nservicebus/pipeline/unit-of-work.md).

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2191


## Remove Bus.CreateInstance

In NServiceBus version 4, messages could be created with two approaches. In version 5, the same can be achieved using only one of those approaches.

snippet: 4to5InterfaceMessageCreation


### How to publish an interface event using reflection

In some contexts it may not be possible to invoke the generic `IBus.Publish()`, for example, when receiving a message via a non-typed webservice. In these cases, use `IMessageCreator` to construct the instance.

`IMessageCreator` can be accessed via the container. The recommended way to do this is to pass it into the constructor of the class (eg `Handler`, `Saga`, `IWantToRunWhenBusStartsAndStops`, etc).

snippet: 4to5ReflectionInterfaceMessageCreation

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2244


## Pull gateway out of the core

The gateway has been moved to a separate `NServiceBus.Gateway` NuGet.

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/1603


## Update to RavenDB 2.5

NServiceBus version 5 has been updated to use Raven 2.5.

The standard approach for updating RavenDB is to update the server first and then update the client. The benefit of this approach is that the risk is split and each part can be verified individually.

While this approach can be taken when updating to RavenDB 2.5, there are known issues when talking from a Raven 2.0 client to a RavenDB 2.5 server. However this issue only occurs in rare circumstances, so it is the decision of the consumer to decide which approach is best for their scenario.

See [using RavenDb in NServiceBus](/persistence/ravendb/installation.md#upgrading-ravendb) for additional details on upgrading from Raven 2.0 to 2.5.


## RavenDB is split from the core

To allow a more regular cadence of RavenDB updates and isolate those changes, the RavenDB integration for NServiceBus has been extracted to its own NuGet.

To move over to this NuGet after updating to version 5:

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/1605


#### 1. Install the NServiceBus.RavenDB NuGet package
   
`Install-Package NServiceBus.RavenDB`


#### 2. Use the new configuration API

snippet: 4to5CustomRavenConfig


## Pull the distributor out of the core

The distributor feature has been extracted into its own NuGet.
More details on this change: https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/1604

To move over to this NuGet after updating to version 5:

 1. Install the [NServiceBus.Distributor.MSMQ NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/NServiceBus.Distributor.MSMQ/)
 1. Replace old profile names with their new counterparts:

Old Profile | New Profile
:--- |:---
`NServiceBus.Distributor` | `NServiceBus.MsmqDistributor`
`NServiceBus.Master` | `NServiceBus.MsmqMaster`
`NServiceBus.Worker` | `NServiceBus.MsmqWorker`


## Obsolete the IWantToRunBeforeConfiguration API 

The `IWantToRunBeforeConfiguration` API is no longer needed and is obsolete. The replacement is to use either `INeedInitalization` or use a [feature](/nservicebus/pipeline/features.md) where a `Default(s=>..)` can be setup in the constructor of the feature.

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/pull/2180


## Remove UnicastBus.Start(Action)

The `startupAction` parameter of `UnicastBus.Start` executed the action immediately before the start of the bus. This provided no real value since a consumer can execute the action prior to calling `Start`.

snippet: 4to5StartupAction

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2168


## Remove ForInstallationOn<T>, Windows and IEnvironment

This API has been simplified.

snippet: 4to5Installers

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2167


## Make Scheduler API instance-based

snippet: 4to5Scheduler

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/pull/2192


## Make ConfigureHowToFindSaga abstract

Many bugs are caused by this method not being overridden. As such it is abstract in NServiceBus version 5.

snippet: 4to5ConfigureHowToFindSagaForUpgrade

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2137


## Standardize extension methods to configure persisters

In the interest of keeping the API consistent, a standard approach for choosing and configuring persistence has been applied.

snippet: 4to5ConfigurePersistence

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2102


## Obsolete the SerializationSettings properties WrapSingleMessages and DontWrapSingleMessages

In NServiceBus version 5, multi-message sends is removed and wrapping messages is no longer required. Usages of these settings should be removed.

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2104


## Change IMessageSerializer.Serialize to take a single message

In NServiceBus version 5, multi-message sends has been removed and serialization of an array of messages is no longer required.

Implementations of `IMessageSerializer` should be updated to take a single object.

Usages of `IMessageSerializer` should no longer pass in an array of objects.

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2105


## Replace ISaga with non-generic base class Saga

Use abstract classes `Saga<T>` (for generic access to the saga data) or `Saga` (for non-generic access to the saga data) instead.

This should only effect scenarios that are leveraging more advanced NServiceBus extensions. This is because in version 4, it was not possible to use `ISaga` to create a saga.

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2095


## Remove Bus.Subscribe predicate overloads

Instead create a handler that does this filtering logic and then optionally calls `DoNotContinueDispatchingCurrentMessageToHandlers`. This handler should be ordered to run before other handlers.

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2088


## Remove this.Bus() extension method for IHandleMessages implementations

In NServiceBus version 4, there was an extension method on `IHandleMessages` that supplied a static instance of the `IBus`. This allowed consumers to write `this.Bus().Reply(response);`.

While this was convenient, the tax of allowing static access to an instance of the `IBus` was too high. As such this extension has been removed.

The replacement is to inject an instance of `IBus` as a constructor parameter and then assign it to a field for later use.

snippet: 4to5BusExtensionMethodForHandler

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2082


## Remove .RunCustomAction()

snippet: 4to5RunCustomAction

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/1366


## Moved DefineCriticalErrorAction to be a ConfigurationBuilder extension

snippet: 4to5DefineCriticalErrorAction

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2254


## Moved FileShareDataBus to a ConfigurationBuilder extension

snippet: 4to5FileShareDataBus

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2257


## Moved PurgeOnStartup to be a ConfigurationBuilder extension

snippet: 4to5PurgeOnStartup

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2257


## Moved License configuration API to be a ConfigurationBuilder extension

snippet: 4to5License

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2278


## Moved EncryptionService to be a ConfigurationBuilder extension


### RijndaelEncryption

snippet: 4to5EncryptionServiceSimple

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2265


### Custom IEncryptionService

snippet: 4to5EncryptionFromIEncryptionService

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/pull/2270


## Moved Transaction config to ConfigurationBuilder

snippet: 4to5TransactionConfig

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/pull/2283


## Moved static endpoint config to ConfigurationBuilder

snippet: 4to5StaticConfigureEndpoint


## Moved performance monitoring and SLA to ConfigurationBuilder

snippet: 4to5PerformanceMonitoring

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2284


## Configure.Instance deprecated

`Configure.Instance` has been deprecated. The alternatives for configuring an instance now include:

### At configuration time

In NServiceBus version 4, some configuration APIs require access to an instance of `Configure` via `Configure.Instance`. For example `IWantToRunBeforeConfigurationIsFinalized` and `IWantToRunWhenConfigurationIsComplete`. These interfaces have been modified in version 5 so an instance of `Configure` is passed in.


### To resolve IBuilder

In version 4, it is possible to use `Configure.Instance` to get access to an instance of `IBuilder`. Instead of using `IBuilder` to access other runtime instances that exist in dependency injection, resolve them via [dependency injection](/nservicebus/dependency-injection/). An alternative to using `IBuilder` is to configure NServiceBus to use a custom dependency injection instance. After starting the bus, this instance can be used to resolve instances. Each of the dependency injection integrations have an [associated sample](/samples/dependency-injection/) that show how to pass in a custom instance.


### To statically resolve IBus

One common use of `Configure.Instance` in NServiceBus version 4 was to access an instance of `IBus` in the static context, i.e. with `Configure.Instance.Builder.Build<IBus>()`. It is recommended to avoid using the static context and instead construct the instances via the container. For example, to inject `IBus`, add a constructor parameter of the type `IBus` and store that in a field for when it is needed.

If the class cannot be constructed though dependency injection store the instance of `IBus` returned from `Bus.Create(busConfiguration).Start()` in a static variable and access it in the global context.


### Static resolution via IWantToRunWhenBusStartsAndStops

Access to `IBuilder` and `IBus` via `Bus.Create(busConfiguration).Start()` is no longer available when using the NServiceBus host or plugging into NServiceBus in a generic library. If this functionality is necessary, capture both `IBuilder` and `IBus` via `IWantToRunWhenBusStartsAndStops` and storing them statically.

snippet: 4to5businstance

Note that this approach should be considered only when it's not possible to resolve the components via dependency injection.


## Moved SendOnly mode to ConfigurationBuilder

snippet: 4to5SendOnly

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/pull/2295


## Removed EndpointName to ConfigurationBuilder and removed Func overload

snippet: 4to5EndpointName

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/pull/2275


## Moved DoNotCreateQueues to a ConfigurationBuilder extension

snippet: 4to5DoNotCreateQueues

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2263


## Remove RunHandlersUnderIncomingPrincipal

The `RunHandlersUnderIncomingPrincipal` method has been removed.

This API was frequently assumed to be a security feature. In fact, this API exposes the username from the message sending code to executing handlers. It does this by setting `Thread.CurrentPrincipal` to a fake principal containing the username of the user who sent the message and extracts this username from the message headers. The handler code is free use `Thread.CurrentPrincipal` or to ignore. It does not add any security or perform any true impersonation.

To re-enable this feature, a [message mutator](/nservicebus/pipeline/message-mutators.md) can be used .

snippet: 4to5RemovePrincipalHack

Another option is to use a custom header as illustrated in the [Appending username using headers](/samples/username-header/) sample.


## INeedToInstallInfrastructure

The interface `INeedToInstallInfrastructure<T>` has been removed. Use [PowerShell commandlets](/nservicebus/operations/management-using-powershell.md) as an alternative.
