---
title: Upgrade Version 5 to 6
summary: Instructions on how to upgrade NServiceBus Version 5 to 6.
tags:
 - upgrade
 - migration
related:
- nservicebus/upgrades/gateway-1to2
- nservicebus/upgrades/sqlserver-2to3
---


## Move to .NET 4.5.2

The minimum .NET version for NServiceBus Version 6 is .NET 4.5.2.

**Users must update all projects (that reference NServiceBus) to .NET 4.5.2 before updating to NServiceBus Version 6.**

It is recommended to update to .NET 4.5.2 and perform a full migration to production **before** updating to NServiceBus Version 6.

For larger solutions the Visual Studio extension [Target Framework Migrator](https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/47bded90-80d8-42af-bc35-4736fdd8cd13) can reduce the manual effort required in performing an upgrade.
 

## IBus, IStartableBus and the Bus Static class are now obsolete

In previous versions of NServiceBus, to send or publish messages within a message handler or other extension interfaces, the message session (`IBus` interface in Versions 5 and below) was accessed via container injection. In Versions 6 injecting the message session is no longer required. Message handlers and other extension interfaces now provide context parameters such as `IMessageHandlerContext` or `IEndpointInstance` which give access to the same functions that used to be available via the `IBus` interface.

For more details on the various scenarios when using IBus, see: [Migrating from IBus](/nservicebus/upgrades/5to6-moving-away-from-ibus.md).


## [Endpoint](/nservicebus/endpoints/) Name is mandatory

In Versions 6 and above endpoint name is mandatory.

snippet: 5to6-endpointNameRequired

The endpoint name is used as a logical identifier when sending or receiving messages. It is also used for determining the name of the input queue the endpoint will be bound to. See [Derived endpoint name](/nservicebus/upgrades/5to6-endpoint-name-helper.md) for the algorithm used in Versions 5 and below to select endpoint name if backwards compatibility is a concern.


## Message handlers

The handler method on `IHandleMessages<T>` now returns a Task. In order to leverage async code, add the `async` keyword to the handler method and use `await` for async methods. In order to convert the synchronous code add `return Task.FromResult(0);` to the end of the handler methods.

WARNING: Do not `return null` from the message handlers. A `null` will result in an Exception.

snippet:5to6-messagehandler


### Bus Send and Receive

There is also a change in the parameters, giving access to the `IMessageHandlerContext`, which provides the methods that used to be called from `IBus`. Use the `IMessageHandlerContext` to send and publish messages.

snippet:5to6-bus-send-publish


### Message handler ordering

In Version 6 the message handler ordering APIs are simplified. The full API can be seen in [Handler ordering](/nservicebus/handlers/handler-ordering.md).


#### Specifying a Handler to run first

snippet:5to6HandlerOrderingWithFirst


#### Specifying Handler order

snippet:5to6HandlerOrderingWithCode


## Endpoint Start and Stop


### Interface Changes

The `IWantToRunWhenBusStartsAndStops` interface is now obsolete.


#### [Self Hosting](/nservicebus/hosting/#self-hosting)

When self-hosting, call any startup code after `Endpoint.Start` or any cleanup code after `Endpoint.Stop`.

snippet: 5to6-endpoint-start-stop

While the [Dispose Pattern](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/b1yfkh5e.aspx) can no longer be used (since `IEndpointInstance` does not implement [IDisposable](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.idisposable.aspx)) this is actually not a common use case since in most [hosting scenarios](/nservicebus/hosting/) the startup code is not in the same method as the shutdown code. For example 

 * [Windows Service Hosting](/nservicebus/hosting/windows-service.md) where startup is usually done in [ServiceBase.OnStart](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.serviceprocess.servicebase.onstart.aspx) and shutdown is usually done in [ServiceBase.OnStop](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.serviceprocess.servicebase.onstop.aspx).
 * [Web Site or Web Service Hosting](/nservicebus/hosting/web-application.md) where startup is usually done in [HttpApplication.Application_Start](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms178473.aspx) and shutdown is usually done in [HttpApplication.Dispose](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.httpapplication.dispose.aspx).

If the extensibility provided by `IWantToRunWhenBusStartsAndStops` is still required it can be achieved via other means, for example, [using MEF or Reflection to customize NServiceBus](/samples/plugin-based-config/).


#### Using [NServiceBus.Host](/nservicebus/hosting/nservicebus-host/)

See the upgrade guide for more details on [using the new interface](/nservicebus/upgrades/host-6to7.md) provided by the host.


#### Using [AzureCloudService Host](/nservicebus/hosting/cloud-services-host/)

See the upgrade guide for more details on [using the new interface](/nservicebus/upgrades/acs-host-6to7.md) provided by the host.


## ISatellite and IAdvancedSatellite interfaces are obsolete

Both the `ISatellite` and the `IAdvancedSatellite` interfaces are deprecated. The same functionality is available via the `AddSatelliteReceiver` method on the context passed to the [features](/nservicebus/pipeline/features.md#feature-api) `Setup` method. The [satellite documentation](/nservicebus/satellites/) shows this in detail. 

## IManageMessageFailures is now obsolete.

The `IManageMessageFailures` interface was the extension point to customize the handling of second level retries before a message failure is forwarded to the error queue.
 
This same functionality and more can be achieved using the [message processing pipeline](/nservicebus/pipeline/). See also [Customizing error handling with the pipeline](/nservicebus/pipeline/customizing-error-handling.md).


## Header management


### Setting headers on outgoing messages

Headers are now set using the new `Send`/`Reply` or `Publish` options. `Bus.SetMessageHeader` is no longer available.

See also [Header Manipulation](/nservicebus/messaging/header-manipulation.md).


### Setting outgoing headers for the entire endpoint

NServiceBus allows setting headers that are applied to all outgoing messages for the entire endpoint. In Version 6 this can be done using:

snippet:5to6header-static-endpoint


### Setting headers on the outgoing pipeline

Headers for outgoing messages can now be set using `context.Headers` on pipelines like shown below:

snippet:5to6header-outgoing-behavior

Also note that headers can only be set on the outgoing pipeline.


## Using a custom correlation id

Custom [correlation Id's](/nservicebus/messaging/message-correlation.md) for outgoing messages should now be set using the new `Send`/`Reply` or `Publish` options instead of being passed into `bus.Send`.


### New context arguments

The signature for the mutators now passes context arguments that give access to relevant information on the message and also the mutation the message. This context will give access to the same functionality as previous versions so just update the code accordingly.

See [header manipulation](/nservicebus/messaging/header-manipulation.md) for one example on how this might look.

include:5to6removePShelpers


## Timeouts


### Timeout storage

`IPersistTimeouts` has been split into two interfaces, `IPersistTimeouts` and `IQueryTimeouts`, to properly separate those storage concerns. Both must be implemented to have a fully functional timeout infrastructure.

`IQueryTimeouts` implements the concern of polling for timeouts outside the context of a message pipeline. `IPersistTimeouts` implements the concern of storage and removal for timeouts which is executed inside the context of a pipeline. Depending on the design of the timeout persisters, those concerns can now be implemented independently. Furthermore, `IPersistTimeouts` introduced a new parameter `TimeoutPersistenceOptions `. This parameter allows access to the pipeline context. This enables timeout persisters to manipulate everything that exists in the context during message pipeline execution.


### Automatic retries

Previously configuring the number of times a message will be retried by the First Level Retries (FLR) mechanism also determined how many times the `TimeoutManager` attempted to retry dispatching a deferred message in case an exception was thrown. From Version 6, the `TimeoutManager` will attempt the dispatch five times (this number is not configurable anymore). The configuration of the FLR mechanism for non-deferred message dispatch has not been changed.


## Sagas


### Remove NServiceBus.Saga namespace

The `NServiceBus.Saga` namespace has been removed to stop it clashing with the `NServiceBus.Saga.Saga` class. For all commonly used APIs (eg the `Saga` class and `IContainSagaData ` interface) they have been moved into the `NServiceBus` namespace. Other more advanced APIs (eg the `IFinder` and `IHandleSagaNotFound` interfaces) have been moved into the `NServiceBus.Sagas` namespace.

In most cases `using NServiceBus.Saga` can be replaced with `using NServiceBus`.


### Unique attribute no longer needed

NServiceBus will automatically make the correlated saga property unique without the need for an explicit `[Unique]` attribute to be used. This attribute can be safely removed from saga data types.


### ConfigureHowToFindSaga

All messages that start the saga (`IAmStartedByMessages<T>`) and other messages that are handled by the saga (`IHandleMessages<T>`) needs to be mapped to the saga data using either a mapping in `ConfigureHowToFindSaga` method, or a custom [saga finder](/nservicebus/sagas/saga-finding.md). 

In the below example, the `OrderSaga` is started by the `StartOrder` message. The `OrderSaga` also handles the `CompleteOrder` message.

snippet:5to6-SagaDefinition

In Version 6, the `StartOrder` message will also need to be specified in the `ConfigureHowToFindSaga` method.

snippet:5to6-ConfigureHowToFindSaga


### Correlating properties

Version 6 automatically correlates incoming message properties to its saga data counterparts. Any saga data correlation in the message handler code can be safely removed. Correlated properties (for existing saga instances) will not be changed once set. 

snippet:5to6-NoSagaDataCorrelationNeeded

Version 6 will only support correlating messages to a single saga property. Correlating on more than one property is still supported by creating a custom [saga finder](/nservicebus/sagas/saga-finding.md).


### Saga persisters & finders

Saga persisters (`ISagaPersister`) and finders (`IFindSagas`) introduce a new parameter `SagaPersistenceOptions`. This parameter gives access to the saga metadata and pipeline context. This enables  persisters and finders to manipulate everything that exists in the context during message pipeline execution. For more information see [Sagas](/nservicebus/sagas/) and [Complex saga finding logic](/nservicebus/sagas/saga-finding.md).


### MarkAsComplete no longer virtual

The `Saga` base class method `MarkAsComplete` is no longer virtual.


### RequestTimeout requires IMessageHandlerContext

`RequestTimeout` requires a `IMessageHandlerContext` as additional parameter. Pass the context argument received in the handle method to `RequestTimeout`.


### ReplyToOriginator requires IMessageHandlerContext

`ReplyToOriginator` requires a `IMessageHandlerContext` as additional parameter. Pass the context argument received in the handle method to `RequestTimeout`.


## Pipeline customization


### Message mutators

The `IMessageMutator` and `IMutateTransportMessages` interfaces are no longer available. Instead use the individual `IMutateOutgoingMessages`, `IMutateIncomingMessages`, `IMutateIncomingTransportMessages` and `IMutateOutgoingTransportMessages` as needed since they provide the same functionality.


### Behaviors

 * `IncomingContext` and `OutgoingContext` have been replaced with multiple contexts ("stages") per pipeline offering more useful information depending on the requirements. [Pipeline Steps Stages and Connectors](/nservicebus/pipeline/steps-stages-connectors.md) provides more details about the available stages.
 * `Behavior<TContext>` now provides the base class for implementing custom behaviors and replaces `IBehavior<TContext>`.
 
#### WellKnownStep

`WellKnownStep` has been obsoleted and should no longer be used to order behaviors with `InsertBefore` and `InsertAfter`. Instead place the behavior in an appropriate [stage of the pipeline](/nservicebus/pipeline/steps-stages-connectors.md). [Contact support](http://particular.net/support) if custom behavior depends on a specific order within the pipeline stage.


### PipelineExecutor

The `PipelineExecutor` class has been removed. It has been internalized and is not accessible through the [Container](/nservicebus/containers/). Use a custom Behavior instead. See [Manipulate the Pipeline with Behaviors](/nservicebus/pipeline/manipulate-with-behaviors.md).


## Outbox


### Outbox storage

`IOutboxStorage` introduced a new parameter `OutboxStorageOptions`. This parameter gives access to the pipeline context. This enables outbox storage methods to manipulate everything that exists in the context during message pipeline execution.


## Subscriptions


### Subscription storage

`ISubscriptionStorage` has been split into two interfaces, `ISubscriptionStorage` and `IInitializableSubscriptionStorage`, to properly separate those storage concerns. `ISubscriptionStorage` must be implemented to have a fully functional subscription infrastructure. `IInitializableSubscriptionStorage` is only necessary when the subscription storage needs to be initialized.

`ISubscriptionStorage` implements the concern of storage, retrieval, and removal for subscriptions, which is executed inside the context of a pipeline. Furthermore, `ISubscriptionStorage` introduced a new parameter `SubscriptionStorageOptions`. This parameter allows access to the pipeline context. This enables subscription storages to manipulate everything that exists in the context during message pipeline execution.


### Auto subscribing plain messages

The option to automatically subscribe to plain messages was removed, as message subscription should be based on events. Although not recommended, this can be overridden by [manually subscribing](/nservicebus/messaging/publish-subscribe/controlling-what-is-subscribed.md#how-to-manually-subscribe-to-a-message) to other message types.


## MSMQ ReturnToSourceQueue.exe

The MSMQ ReturnToSourceQueue.exe tool is now deprecated. The code for this tool has been moved to [ParticularLabs/MsmqReturnToSourceQueue](https://github.com/ParticularLabs/MsmqReturnToSourceQueue) repository. See the readme in that repository for full details.


## AutoSubscribe

The configuration option `DoNotRequireExplicitRouting()` has been obsoleted since transports with support for centralized pubsub will always auto subscribe all events without requiring explicit routing. Transports with message driven pubsub (like [MSMQ](/nservicebus/msmq/), [Sql Server](/nservicebus/sqlserver/) and [AzureStorageQueues](/nservicebus/azure-storage-queues/)) will not subscribe properly if there is no routing specified. If previously this was used it can now safely remove it.

AutoSubscription happens during the startup phase of the bus. Previous versions of NServiceBus tried to subscribe multiple times on a background thread until the subscription either succeeded or failed. When the subscription failed, an error entry was written to the log file. This version of NServiceBus changes that behavior for transports with message driven pub-sub. The subscription is tried asynchronously on the startup thread. In the case when a subscriber starts and the publisher has never created its queues, the subscriber endpoint will not start and the caller will receive a `QueueNotFoundException` indicating what went wrong.


## Assembly scanning

See [Assembly Scanning API](/nservicebus/hosting/assembly-scanning.md) for more information.


### Nested Directories

NServiceBus Version 6 is no longer scanning nested directories for assemblies. This behavior can re-enable using the [Assembly Scanning API](/nservicebus/hosting/assembly-scanning.md#nested-directories).


### Include moved to Exclude

In Version 6 the API has been changed to an "Exclude a list" approach. See [Assemblies to scan](/nservicebus/hosting/assembly-scanning.md#assemblies-to-scan) for more information.

snippet:5to6ScanningUpgrade


## Throttling

Requirements to throttling mechanisms are very different. While some 3rd party services (e.g. GitHub, Twitter, Google, etc.) enforce rate limits on certain time periods, other services may have entirely different usage limitations. The previous throttling API offered a very limited, messages per second based, throttling mechanism which only works for very few scenarios. Therefore, the throttling API has been removed with Version 6 without a built-in alternative. [Tuning NServiceBus](/nservicebus/operations/tuning.md) contains more information about implementing a custom throttling mechanism.

The `MaximumMessageThroughputPerSecond` on the `TransportConfig` class has been marked as obsolete. Using a configuration based approach, the endpoint will fail to start when using the `MaximumMessageThroughputPerSecond` attribute on the `<TransportConfig>` element.


## RepeatedFailuresOverTimeCircuitBreaker has been made internal

If are using `RepeatedFailuresOverTimeCircuitBreaker` instead include [the source code](https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/blob/5.2.5/src/NServiceBus.Core/CircuitBreakers/RepeatedFailuresOverTimeCircuitBreaker.cs) in the project.


## Transport seam

`IDispatchMessages` have been obsoleted and is replaced by `IPushMessages`. The interfaces are equivalent so if implementing a transport, implement the new interface. `PushContext` has been given a new property `PushContext.ReceiveCancellationTokenSource`, revealing the intent of cancellation for receiving the current message. The transport implementation should act accordingly, canceling the receive when the source's token is canceled.

The `ConfigureTransport` class was deprecated. Custom transports are now configured using the `TransportDefinition` class, see [this sample](/samples/custom-transport) for more information.


### Corrupted messages

The core will now pass the error queue address to the transport to make it easier to handle corrupted messages. If a corrupted message is detected the transport is expected to move the message to the specified error queue.


## Immediate dispatch

Using a suppressed transaction scope to request sends to be dispatched immediately is still supported. However it is recommend to switch to the new explicit API for [immediate dispatch](/nservicebus/messaging/send-a-message.md#immediate-dispatch).


## Batched dispatch

Version 6 introduced the concept of [Batched dispatch](/nservicebus/messaging/batched-dispatch.md) which means that outgoing operations won't dispatch to the transport until all the handlers of the current message have completed successfully. This helps users inconsistencies in the form of "ghost" messages being emitted due to exceptions during processing.


## SubscriptionEventArgs has been deprecated

Version 5 introduced an undocumented way to get the list of subscribers when publishing a message on the transports using [persistence based pub/sub](/nservicebus/messaging/publish-subscribe/#mechanics-persistence-based). This is no longer available; contact support should this information be required in Version 6.


## Timeout Persistence interfaces redesigned

We redesigned the `IPersistTimeouts` interface which can be implemented to provide a customized timeout persistence option. If using a custom timeout persister, note that the interface has been split into `IQueryTimeouts` and `IPersistTimeouts` (while `IPersistTimeoutsV2` has been removed). For more details see [authoring a custom persistence](/nservicebus/persistence/authoring-custom.md#timeout-persister).


## Message Routing

A new [Message Routing Feature](/nservicebus/messaging/routing.md) has been added.


## Deprecated Address

Version 5 of NServiceBus represents addresses with an `Address` class. The `Address` class maintains addresses in the *queue@host* format. This format was originally developed for the MSMQ transport but does not meet the needs of other transports. In Version 6, addresses are represented as opaque strings.

Any usages of `Address` should be replaced by `string`.


## Deprecated TransportMessage

Previous versions of NServiceBus used `TransportMessage` as a generic container both for outgoing and incoming messages. For a better separation of concerns that class has been split into `IncomingMessage` and `OutgoingMessage`. So all code paths related to outgoing messages will use `OutgoingMessage` and all code paths related to incoming messages will use `IncomingMessages`. The class `TransportMessage` has been deprecated entirely. Here are a few common scenarios related to `TransportMessage` and how they can be addressed with either `IncomingMessage` or `OutgoingMessage`.


### Body

Both `IncomingMessage` and `OutgoingMessage` provide a body byte array to get access to the underlying payload under the property `Body`.

When setting the body, raw sending is the most likely scenario. See section [Raw sending](#deprecated-transportmessage-raw-sending).


### Headers

Both `IncomingMessage` and `OutgoingMessage` provide a headers dictionary to get or set headers under the property `Headers`.


### Id

Both `IncomingMessage` and `OutgoingMessage` provide a message ID under the property `MessageId`.


### CorrelationId

The correlation ID is no longer a strongly typed property exposed. To get access to the correlation ID of a message use the `Headers.CorrelationId` key.


### ReplyAddress

The `ReplyAddress` can only be accessed on an incoming message. Use the extension method `GetReplyAddress` on `IncomingMessage` to acquire the reply address.


### MessageIntent

The `MessageIntent` can only be accessed on an incoming message. Use the extension method `GetMessageIntent` on `IncomingMessage` to acquire the message intent.


### TimeToBeReceived

From the perspective of an outgoing message the `TimeToBeReceived` is a delivery concern and needs to be specified over the newly introduced `DeliveryConstraint`.

Set the `TimeToBeReceived`

snippet:SetDeliveryConstraintDiscardIfNotReceivedBefore

Read the `TimeToBeReceived`

snippet:ReadDeliveryConstraintDiscardIfNotReceivedBefore

From the perspective of an incoming message the `TimeToBeReceived` can be acquired by using the `Headers.TimeToBeReceived` on the `IncomingMessage.Headers` dictionary.


### Recoverable

From the perspective of an outgoing message the `Recoverable` flag is a delivery concern and needs to be specified over the newly introduced `DeliveryConstraint`.

Set the `Recoverable`

snippet:SetDeliveryConstraintNonDurable

Read the `Recoverable`

snippet:ReadDeliveryConstraintNonDurable

From the perspective of an incoming message, the `Recoverable` flag can be acquired by using the `Headers.NonDurableMessage` on the `IncomingMessage.Headers` dictionary.


### [Custom Retry Policy](/nservicebus/errors/automatic-retries.md#second-level-retries-custom-retry-policy)

Custom retry policies now operate on a `SecondLevelRetryContext` instead of a `TransportMessage`.

Given configuring an endpoint to have a custom retry policy:

snippet: 5to6-SecondLevelRetriesCustomPolicy

The change in handling of that retry is as follows:

snippet: 5to6-SecondLevelRetriesCustomPolicyHandler


### Raw sending

In Version 5 it was possible  to use `ISendMessages` to do raw sends. In Version 6 `IDispatchMessages` was introduced. See the following snippet how raw sending could look like

snippet:DispatcherRawSending


## Queue creation

In Version 5 the implementation of the interface `ICreateQueues` was called for each queue that needed to be created. In Version 6 `ICreateQueues` has been redesigned. The implementation of the interface gets called once but with all queues provided on the `QueueBindings` object. It is now up to the implementation of that interface if the queues are created asynchronously in a sequential order or even in parallel.


## [Critical Error Action](/nservicebus/hosting/critical-errors.md)

The API for defining a [Critical Error Action](/nservicebus/hosting/critical-errors.md) has been changed to be a custom delegate.

snippet: 5to6CriticalError


## Notifications

The `BusNotifications` class has been renamed to `Notifications`. 

`BusNotifications` previously exposed the available notification hooks as observables implementing `IObservable`. This required implementing the `IObserver` interface or including [Reactive-Extensions](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-au/data/gg577609.aspx) to use this API. In Version 6 the notifications API has been changed for easier usage. It exposes regular events instead of observables. To continue using Reactive-Extensions the events API can be transformed into `IObservable`s like this:

snippet: ConvertEventToObservable

Notification subscriptions can now also be registered at configuration time on the `EndpointConfiguration.Notifications` property. See the [error notifications documentation](/nservicebus/errors/subscribing-to-error-notifications.md) for more details and samples.


### Delayed delivery error notifications

In Versions 6 and above the `TimeoutManager` does not provide any error notifications. When an error occurs during processing of a deferred message by the `TimeoutManager`, the message will be retried and possibly moved to the error queue. The user will not be notified about these events.

Note that in Versions 5 and below, when the user [subscribes to error notifications ](/nservicebus/errors/subscribing-to-error-notifications.md) they receive notification in the situation described above.


## Transaction configuration API

Version 6 provide a configuration API that is more aligned with the transaction capabilities of the transport.


### Enabling transactions

Transactions are enabled by default so calls to `.Enable()` can safely be removed.

snippet:5to6EnableTransactions


### Disabling transactions

Disabling transactions is now done by setting a transport transaction mode.

snippet:5to6DisableTransactions


### Enabling distributed transactions

Distributed transactions is the default mode for transports with DTC support but can be enabled explicitly.

snippet:5to6EnableDistributedTransactions


### Disabling distributed transactions

Disabling distributed transactions is now done by setting a transport transaction mode.

snippet:5to6DisableDistributedTransactions

Or, if the transport supports native AtomicWithReceive:

snippet:5to6DisableDistributedTransactionsNative


### Controlling transaction scope options

Version 6 allows transaction scope options to be configured at the transport level. Setting isolation level and timeout can now be done with the following:

snippet:5to6TransportTransactionScopeOptions


### Wrapping handlers execution in a transaction scope

Version 6 comes with a unit of work that wraps execution of handlers in a transaction scope, which can now be done with this API:

snippet:5to6WrapHandlersExecutionInATransactionScope


### Forwarding messages to error queue when transactions are disabled

When transactions are disabled and if any errors are encountered during the processing of the message then the messages will be forwarded to the error queue. In Version 5, this message would have been lost. For more details, read the [new behavior changes in Version 6](/nservicebus/transports/transactions.md#transactions-unreliable-transactions-disabled).


### Suppressing the ambient transaction

`config.Transactions().DoNotWrapHandlersExecutionInATransactionScope()` has been removed since transaction scopes are no longer used by non DTC transports to delay the dispatch of all outgoing operations until handlers have been executed.

In Version 6, handlers will only be wrapped in a [TransactionScope](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.transactions.transactionscope.aspx) if the given transport chooses to do so. Transports that do this in their default configuration include [MSMQ](/nservicebus/msmq/) and [SQL Server](/nservicebus/sqlserver/). This means that performing storage operations against data sources that also support transaction scopes will escalate to a distributed transaction. Opting out of this behavior can be done with the following:

snippet: 5to6DoNotWrapHandlersInTransaction

For more information see [Transport transaction - Sends atomic with Receive](/nservicebus/transports/transactions.md#transactions-transport-transaction-sends-atomic-with-receive).

Version 6 leans on native transport transaction and the new [batched dispatch](/nservicebus/messaging/batched-dispatch.md) support to achieve the same level of consistency with better performance.

Suppressing the ambient transaction created by the MSMQ and SQL Server transports can still be achieved by creating a custom pipeline behavior with a suppressed transaction scope.


### Access to runtime settings

The following properties have been obsoleted on `TransactionSettings` class.


#### SuppressDistributedTransactions

To determine if distributed transactions are suppressed.

snippet: 5to6SuppressDistributedTransactions


#### IsTransactional

To determine if transactions are enabled.

snippet: 5to6IsTransactional


## Remove WinIdName Header

The `WinIdName` existed to enable the Principal Replacement feature (`RunHandlersUnderIncomingPrincipal` in Version 4 and `ImpersonateSender` in Version 3).

See the [Appending username using headers](/samples/username-header/) sample for usage of this API.

This feature was removed in Version 5 and the `WinIdName` header will no longer be added to outgoing messages.

To re-add this header to outgoing messages a [mutator](/nservicebus/pipeline/message-mutators.md) can be used.

snippet: 5to6ReAddWinIdNameHeader

Another option is to use a custom header as illustrated in [Appending username using headers](/samples/username-header/) sample.


## Removed FeaturesReport

`FeaturesReport` exposed reporting information about features of a running endpoint instance. It has been internalized. Similarly to previous versions the information is still available by inspecting the `DisplayDiagnosticsForFeatures` logger when the endpoint runs with log level [`DEBUG`](/nservicebus/logging/#logging-levels).


## Serialization


### No dependency injection for IMessageSerializer

The `IMessageSerializer` instances are now produced by a factory (as described in [this article](/nservicebus/serialization/custom-serializer.md)) instead of being resolved through a container.


### Built-in serializers are internal

Built-in JSON and XML serializers are internal starting with Version 6. If a custom serializer depends on them in any way the code will need to be copied.


### Standardized XML Serialization

Null types within the XML serializer now conforms to the [W3C Specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-1/#xsi_nil) by using the `xsi:nil="true"` attribute.

This change is backwards compatible and will have no impact on communication between older versions of endpoints and newer versions. Older versions will be able to communicate with newer versions and vice versa.

Given the following class:

```CSharp
public class MessageWithNullable : IMessage
{
    public string FirstName { get; set; }
    public DateTime? BirthDate { get; set; } //Nullable DateTime property
}
```

A null `BirthDate` would result in a message in the following:

snippet: 5to6nullXml

WARNING: External integration systems need to ensure compatibility when receiving messages in the new format.


## Encryption Service

It is no longer possible to access the builder to create an encryption service. If container access is required use the container directly in the factory delegate in the `RegisterEncryptionService` method.


## Native sends via MSMQ

`MsmqMessageSender` and `MsmqSettings` are no longer available. Refer to [native sends](/nservicebus/msmq/operations-scripting.md#native-send) for other ways of sending raw messages via MSMQ.


## Delayed Delivery

With the deprecation of `IBus`, message delivery can no longer be delayed with `bus.Defer()`. To delay a message, use the `DelayDeliveryWith(TimeSpan)` and `DoNotDeliverBefore(DateTime)` methods on `SendOptions` passed into `Send()`.

snippet: 5to6delayed-delivery


## Serializers

The BSON serializer build into the core has been removed. Use the [Newtonsoft serializer](/nservicebus/serialization/newtonsoft.md) as a replacement. Also see the [Newtonsoft BSON sample](/samples/serializers/newtonsoft-bson/).


## Conventions

[Conventions](/nservicebus/messaging/conventions.md) are no longer be injected into the [Container](/nservicebus/containers/). Conventions need to be retrieved with `Settings.Get<Conventions>()` over `ReadOnlySettings`.


## MSMQ Subscription Authorization

[MSMQ Subscription Authorization](/nservicebus/msmq/subscription-authorisation.md) is now done by the `SubscriptionAuthorizer` delegate at configuration time and not the `IAuthorizeSubscriptions` interface.

snippet: 5to6-MsmqSubscriptionAuthorizer


## Synchronous request-response (callbacks)

The synchronous request-response feature, also known as callbacks, has been moved from the NServiceBus core to the separate Nuget package [NServiceBus.Callbacks](https://www.nuget.org/packages/NServiceBus.Callbacks/). That package must be used in order to use the callback functionality in Version 6.

The API was also modified. Version 6 API is asynchronous by default and allows to easily access the response message. It is no longer possible to use callbacks inside handlers or sagas, because extension methods are only available on the message session. The differences in the API are fully covered in [handling responses on the client side](/nservicebus/messaging/handling-responses-on-the-client-side.md).

The `NServiceBus.Callbacks` package has to be referenced only by the requesting endpoint. The responding endpoint does not need any additional packages.

snippet: 5to6-Callbacks

In Version 6 the callback routing is based on user-provided unique endpoint instance ID rather than machine name. In order to continue using callbacks, this ID needs to be specified in the requester endpoint configuration.

snippet: 5to6-Callbacks-InstanceId

NOTE: This ID needs to be stable and should never be hardcoded, e.g. it can be read from the configuration file or from the environment (e.g. role ID in Azure).


## Dependency injection

Explicitly setting property values via `.ConfigureProperty<T>()` and `.InitializeHandlerProperty<T>()` has been deprecated. Instead configure the properties explicitly using:

snippet: 5to6-ExplicitProperties


## IConfigureComponents no longer registered in the container

To access it at runtime create a new [`Feature`](/nservicebus/pipeline/features.md) and put the following code in the `.Setup` method 

snippet: 5to6-IConfigureComponentsNotInjected


## Configure type no longer available

In Version 5 the `Configure` type was used to provide runtime access to the local endpoint address, scanned types etc via dependency injection. In Version 6 these values can now be accessed as follows.


### Settings

Settings can be accessed via the `FeatureConfigurationContext`, see [features](/nservicebus/pipeline/features.md) for more details. Runtime access via the container is provided by taking a dependency on the `ReadOnlySettings` type.


### Builder

This is no longer supported. It is advised to, instead of using `IBuilder` directly, use dependency injection via the [container of choice](/nservicebus/containers/).


### Scanned types

Access to types found during [assembly scanning](/nservicebus/hosting/assembly-scanning.md) is provided via `Settings.GetAvailableTypes()`.


### Local address

Access to the [endpoint address](/nservicebus/endpoints/) is provided via `Settings.LocalAddress()`.


## [Feature Dependencies](/nservicebus/pipeline/features.md#dependencies)

Feature Dependencies, using the string API, now need to be declared using the target feature's full type name (`Type.FullName`) which includes the namespace. Removing the `Feature` suffix is no longer required.

snippet: 5to6-DependentFeature


## Recoverability

### Code First API

First and Second Level Retries can now be configured using a code first API:

snippet: 5to6-RecoverabilityCodeFirstApi


### Disabling Retries

`configuration.DisableFeature<FirstLevelRetries>()` and `configuration.DisableFeature<SecondLevelRetries>()` are obsoleted, use the code first API to disable retries instead:

snippet: 5to6-RecoverabilityDisableRetries
