---
title: Upgrade Version 6 to 6.2
summary: Instructions on how to upgrade NServiceBus Version 6 to 6.2.
component: Core
reviewed: 2020-11-26
isUpgradeGuide: true
upgradeGuideCoreVersions:
 - 6
---


## Externalize Windows Performance Counters

include: externalize-perfcounters

See [Externalize Windows Performance Counters](/nservicebus/upgrades/externalize-perfcounters.md) for more information.


## TimeToBeReceived for MSMQ

Version 6.2 will no longer set the [Dead Letter Queues Flag](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms706227.aspx) on messages that have a [Time To Be Received(TTBR)](/nservicebus/messaging/discard-old-messages.md) set.

See [MSMQ Dead Letter Queues](/transports/msmq/dead-letter-queues.md) for more information and details on how to opt-in to the old behavior.


## Externalize Message Property Encryption

include: externalize-encryption

See [Externalize Message Property Encryption](externalize-encryption.md) for more information.


## Outbox double opt-in mechanism removed

The requirement to enable the [Outbox](/nservicebus/outbox/) both in code and in the configuration file has been removed. The `NServiceBus/Outbox` app setting is no longer required and should be removed.

With NServiceBus 6.2, the Outbox can only be enabled via the code first API. See [Enabling the Outbox](/nservicebus/outbox/#enabling-the-outbox) for more information.


## Message Mutator Registration API

A dedicated API to register [Message mutators](/nservicebus/pipeline/message-mutators.md) has been added. This should be used instead of registering them directly with the container.

snippet: 6to6-2register-mutator

See also [Registering message mutators](/nservicebus/pipeline/message-mutators.md#registering-a-mutator).

Note that, for backward compatibility, registering mutators directly via the dependency injection API will continue to work in all Version 6 releases but will be removed in a future major version.


## Assembly Scanning API

The API to control assembly scanning has been moved from `EndpointConfiguration` to a dedicated API. The `ExcludeAssemblies`, `ExcludeTypes`, and `ScanAssembliesInNestedDirectories` methods on `EndpointConfiguration` are now marked as obsolete and will be removed in Version 7.

See [Assembly Scanning](/nservicebus/hosting/assembly-scanning.md) for details on how to control assembly scanning with NServiceBus 6.2.
