---
title: NServiceBus Testing Upgrade Version 7 to 8
summary: Instructions on how to upgrade NServiceBus.Testing Version 7 to 8.
reviewed: 2021-09-30
component: Testing
related:
 - nservicebus/testing
 - nservicebus/upgrades/7to8
isUpgradeGuide: true
upgradeGuideCoreVersions:
 - 7
 - 8
---

## Fluent-style API is not supported

Starting with NServiceBus version 8, the fluent-style testing API is not supported. Tests should be written in an [Arrange-Act-Assert (AAA) style](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/test/unit-test-basics#write-your-tests). Tests written this way will create the handler or saga to be tested, and call methods on them directly, passing in a testable message handler context that will capture outgoing operations that can be asserted on afterwards.

### Testing a handler

To test a handler, create it with the necessary dependencies, then call the `Handle` method directly. Pass in an instance of `TestableMessageHandlerContext` which will collect all outgoing operations. This context allows customization of metadata about the incoming message, including headers.

An example of the same test written in both the Arrange-Act-Assert style and the fluent style:

snippet: 7to8-testhandler

See [the handler unit testing documentation](/nservicebus/testing/#testing-a-handler) for more information.

### Testing a saga

To test a saga, use the [saga scenario testing framework](/nservicebus/testing/saga-scenario-testing.md). The `TestableSaga` class emulates a saga that can receive multiple messages, stores saga data in between messages, and can virtually advance time to observe the processing of timeouts. Assertions can be made on the result of any message being processed by the testable saga.

For each operation, a custom `TestableMessageHandlerContext` can be supplied, but if not provided one will be generated by the testing framework to limit unnecessary boilerplate.

This is an example showing two state changes. The first starts the saga that triggers a timeout, publishes an event, and sends a message. The second state change happens when the timeout occurs, causing another event to be published, and the saga to be completed.

snippet: 7to8-testsaga

Fluent-style saga tests will often include multiple state changes. Arrange-Act-Assert (AAA) tests normally test a single state change in isolation, however this is difficult with sagas because too many internal details of how NServiceBus sagas work must be encoded into the test, limiting their effectiveness. For this reason the scenario test pattern is recommended.

It is also possible to [test sagas in isolation](/nservicebus/testing/#testing-a-saga) in a manner more similar to handlers.

### Uniform Session

The `NServiceBus.UniformSession.Testing` package provided the `WithUniformSession` method to configure fluent-style tests to work with `IUniformSession`. With AAA-style tests, a new instance of the `TestableUniformSession` class can be created and passed to any class with a dependency on `IUniformSession`:

snippet: 7to8-uniformsession

For scenarios where the tested code path both invokes operations of `IUniformSession` and a pipeline context like `IMessageHandlerContext`, the `TestableUniformSession` can be configured to wrap the context:

snippet: 7to8-uniformsessioncontextwrapping

This approach also works for code that use `IUniformSession` and `IMessageSession` in the same code path:

snippet: 7to8-uniformsessionmessagesessionwrapping

### TestableBehaviorContext

To add delivery constraints to the `TestableBehaviorContext` class, use `DispatchProperties` instead of `AddDeliveryConstraint` on the context bag.

snippet: 7to8-adddeliveryconstraint