---
title: Upgrade from V4 to V5
summary: Instructions on how to upgrade from NServiceBus versions 4 to 5 
tags:
- upgrade
- migration
- BusConfiguration
---

## Move to .NET 4.5

In Version 5 the new minimum .net version for NServiceBus is .NET 4.5. 

**This means consumers need to update all projects (that reference NServiceBus) to be .NET 4.5 before updating to NServiceBus V5. **

In the interest of "smaller changes are easier to verify" it is recommended that you do the update to .NET 4.5, and full migration to production, before updating to NServiceBus V5.

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2078

## Interfaces assembly and nuget deprecated

The NServiceBus interfaces dll was created to allow people to have a smaller dependency when creating a messages assembly. With the introduction of unobtrusive messages that is no longer required. As such `NServiceBus.dll` will be merged into NServiceBus.Core.dll. Also the `NServiceBus.Interfaces` nuget will be deprecated.

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2113

### If using nuget packages

No extra work should be required. A normal nuget update should result in no `NServiceBus.Interfaces` nuget being used and a V5 version of the `NServiceBus` nuget being used. This is achieved through some [nuget sleight of hand](
https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2113). 

If for some reason this sleight of hand fails then manually remove usages of the `NServiceBus.Interfaces` nuget and ensure the V5 version of the `NServiceBus` nuget is used. 

### If using manual references

 * Remove all references to `NServiceBus.dll`
 * Update all references of `NServiceBus.Core.dll` to V5

### Reflection

Remember of you have any reflection that makes assumptions on the assembly name of `NServiceBus.dll` you will need to update that code and re-test

### Binding Redirects

Any binding redirects pointing to `NServiceBus.dll` should be removed.

### Use of marker interfaces and attributes from  NServiceBus.Interfaces.dll

The following have been moved into `NServiceBus.Core.dll` (part of the `NServiceBus` nuget)

 * `IMessage`
 * `IEvent`
 * `ICommand`
 * `ExpressAttribute`
 * `DataBusProperty<T>` and `IDataBusProperty`
 * `TimeToBeReceivedAttribute`
 * `WireEncryptedString`
 * `ExpressAttribute`

So if these markers are still required they can be referenced via `NServiceBus.Core.dll`. 

If "no reference" is required the equivalent conventions can be used instead.

<!-- import MessageConventionsV5 -->

## Configure API

The configuration API has been modified to fix several bugs related to method invocation order. The new API takes a Action that configures a `ConfigurationBuilder`.

So a configuration that looked like this in Version 4

<!-- import CustomConfigOverridesV4 -->
 
Will now look like this in Version 5

<!-- import CustomConfigOverridesV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/356

## Logging

NServiceBus now has sensible defaults for logging built in.

NLog and Log4net integration have been extracted to external nuget packages. For more information see [logging-in-nservicebus](/nservicebus/logging-in-nservicebus.md)
## Obsolete sending and publishing batches of messages together in a single call

As part of V5 batch sending of messages has been removed.

So previous code that looks like this

```
bus.Send(new Message1(), new Message2(), new Message3());
```
Should be changed to this

```
bus.Send(new Message1());
bus.Send(new Message2());
bus.Send(new Message3());
```

The full list of Replacements is below

Old Method | Replacement Method 
:--- |:---
Publish<T>(T[] messages); | Publish<T>(T message);
SendLocal(object[] messages); | SendLocal(object message);  
Send(object[] messages); | Send(object message);
Send(string destination, object[] messages); | Send(string destination, object message);
Send(Address address, object[] messages); | Send(Address address, object message);
Send(string destination, string correlationId, object[] messages); | Send(string destination, string correlationId, object message);
SendToSites(IEnumerable<string> siteKeys, object[] messages); | SendToSites(IEnumerable<string> siteKeys, object message);
Defer(TimeSpan delay, object[] messages); | Defer(TimeSpan delay, object message);
Defer(DateTime processAt, object[] messages); | Defer(DateTime processAt, object message);
Reply(object[] messages); | Reply(object message);



https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/1346

## InMemory removal

Due to significant confusion about the usage of this API it has been removed from V5. People using this API should either 

 * move over to doing a normal `Publish` or 
 * call the required methods explicitly  

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2084

## Remove IMessageModule in favor of IManageUnitsOfWork

As part of V4 an improved abstraction (`IManageUnitsOfWork`) was introduced and `IMessageModule` was deprecated. 

In V5 this changed is being completed with the remove of `IMessageModule`.

Uses of `IMessageModule` should be replaced with [`IManageUnitsOfWork`](/nservicebus/unit-of-work-in-nservicebus.md).
 
https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2191

## Remove Bus.CreateInstance

In Version 4 messages could be created with the following approaches

<!-- import InterfaceMessageCreationV4 -->
 
In Version 5 the same can be achieved using only one of those approaches

<!-- import InterfaceMessageCreationV5 -->


### How to publish an interface event using reflection

In some contexts you may not be able to invoke the generic IBus.Publish. For example if you are receiving a message via a non typed webservice. In these case you can use `IMessageCreator` to construct the instance.

`IMessageCreator` can be accessed via the container, the recommended way to do this is to passes it into the constructor of your class (eg `Handler`, `Saga`, `IWantToRunWhenBusStartsAndStops` etc).

<!-- import ReflectionInterfaceMessageCreationV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2244

## Pull Gateway out of the core

The Gateway has been move to a separate `NServiceBus.Gateway` NuGet. 

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/1603

## Update to RavenDB 2.5

Version 5 has been updated to use Raven 2.5.

The standard approach for updating RavenDB is to update the server first and then, later, update the client. The benefit of this approach is the risk is split and each part can be verified individually.

While this approach can be taken when updating to RavenDB 2.5 there is a [known issue](http://issues.hibernatingrhinos.com/issue/RavenDB-2464) when talking from a Raven 2.0 client to a RavenDB 2.5 server. However this issue only occurs in rare circumstances, so it is the decision of the consumer to decide which approach is best for their scenario.

## RavenDB is split from the core

To allow a more regular cadence of RavenDB updates and it isolate those changes the RavenDB integration for NServiceBus has been extracted to its own nuget.

To move over to this nuget after updating to Version 5:
 
https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/1605

#### 1. Install the `NServiceBus.RavenDB` nuget package
     
`Install-Package NServiceBus.RavenDB`

#### 2. Use the new configuration API

In Version 4 configuring the RavenDB connection was done with

<!-- import CustomRavenConfigV4 -->
 
In Version 5 the same can be achieved using the following

<!-- import CustomRavenConfigV5 -->

## Pull the distributor out of the core

The Distributor feature has been extracted into its own Nuget. 
More details on this change: https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/1604

To move over to this NuGet after updating to Version 5:

#### 1. Install the `NServiceBus.Distributor.MSMQ` nuget package
`Install-Package NServiceBus.Distributor.MSMQ`
https://www.nuget.org/packages/NServiceBus.Distributor.MSMQ/

#### 2. If you were using the old profile names, like `NServiceBus.Distributor`, `NServiceBus.Master` or `NServiceBus.Worker`, please replace them with the new profile names, which are: `NServiceBus.MsmqDistributor`, `NServiceBus.MsmqMaster` or `NServiceBus.MsmqWorker`


## Obsoleted the IWantToRunBeforeConfiguration api since its no longer needed 

Replacement is to either use a `INeedInitalization` or go with a Feature where a `Default(s=>..)` can be setup in the constructor of the feature.

For users wanting to setup their own conventions they should now use

<!-- MessageConventionsV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/pull/2180

## Remove UnicastBus.Start(Action)

The `startupAction` parameter of `UnicastBus.Start`simply executed the action immediately before the actual start of the bus. This provided no real value since a consumer can simply execute said action prior to calling `Start`.

Using start action in Version 4

<!-- import StartupActionV4 -->

Replace for start action in Version 5

<!-- import StartupActionReplacementV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2168

## Remove ForInstallationOn<T>, Windows and IEnvironment

This API has been simplified.

So executing an install in Version 4 was done using this code

<!-- import InstallersV4 -->

In Version 5 the equivalent is

<!-- import InstallersV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2167

## Make Scheduler API instance based

So this code 

<!-- import SchedulerV4 -->

Would now look like this 

<!-- import SchedulerV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/pull/2192

## Make ConfigureHowToFindSaga abstract

Many bugs are caused by this method not being overridden. As such it will now be abstract. 

Version 4 Saga mapping

<!-- import ConfigureHowToFindSagaV4 -->

Version 5 Saga mapping

<!-- import ConfigureHowToFindSagaV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2137

## Standardize extension methods to configure persistences

In the interest of keeping the API consistent a standard approach for choosing and configuring persistences has been applied. 

Version 4 persistence configuration

<!-- import ConfigurePersistenceV4 -->

Version 5 Persistence configuration

<!-- import ConfigurePersistenceV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2102

## Obsolete the SerializationSettings properties WrapSingleMessages and DontWrapSingleMessages 

In version 5 multi-message sends is removed. So wrapping messages is no longer required. Usages of these settings should be removed.

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2104

## Change IMessageSerializer.Serialize to take a single message

In version 5 multi-message sends is removed. So serialization of an array of messages is no longer required.

Implementations of `IMessageSerializer` should change to take a single object. 

Usages of `IMessageSerializer` should no longer pass in an array of objects. 

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2105

## Replace ISaga with non generic base class Saga

Use abstract classes `Saga<T>` (for generic access to the saga data) or `Saga` (for non-generic access to the saga data) instead.

This should only effect scenarios that are leveraging more advanced NServiceBus extensions. This is because in version 4 it was not possible use `ISaga` to create a saga.

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2095

## Remove Bus.Subscribe Predicate overloads

Instead create a Handler that does this filtering logic and then, optionally, calls `DoNotContinueDispatchingCurrentMessageToHandlers`. This 
Handler should be ordered to run before other handlers.

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2088

## Remove this.Bus() extension method for IHandleMessages implementations

In V4 there was an extension method on `IHandleMessages` that supplied a static instance of the `IBus`. This allowed consumers to write `this.Bus().Reply(response);`.

While this was convenient the tax of allowing static access to an instance of the `IBus` was too high. As such this extension has been removed. 

The replacement is to inject an instance of `IBus` as a constructor parameter and then assign that to a field for later use.

This code

<!-- import BusExtensionMethodForHandlerV4 -->

Becomes this

<!-- import BusExtensionMethodForHandlerReplacementV5 -->


https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2082

## Remove .RunCustomAction()

This code

<!-- import RunCustomActionV4 -->

Becomes this

<!-- import RunCustomActionReplacementV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/1366

## Moved DefineCriticalErrorAction to be a ConfigurationBuilder extension

This code

<!-- import DefineCriticalErrorActionV4 -->

Becomes this

<!-- import DefineCriticalErrorActionV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2254

## Moved FileShareDataBus to a ConfigurationBuilder extension

This code

<!-- import FileShareDataBusV4 -->

Becomes this

<!-- import FileShareDataBusV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2257

## Moved PurgeOnStartup to be a ConfigurationBuilder extension

This code

<!-- import PurgeOnStartupV4 -->

Becomes this

<!-- import PurgeOnStartupV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2257

## Moved License configuration API to be a ConfigurationBuilder extension

This code

<!-- import LicenseV4 -->

Becomes this

<!-- import LicenseV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2278

## Moved EncryptionService to be a ConfigurationBuilder extension

### RijndaelEncryption

This code

<!-- import EncryptionServiceSimpleV4 -->

Becomes this

<!-- import EncryptionServiceSimpleV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2265

### Custom IEncryptionService

This code

<!-- import EncryptionFromIEncryptionServiceV4 -->

Becomes this

<!-- import EncryptionFromIEncryptionServiceV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/pull/2270

## Moved Transaction config to ConfigurationBuilder

This code

<!-- import TransactionConfigV4 -->

Becomes this

<!-- import TransactionConfigV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/pull/2283

## Moved static Endpoint config to ConfigurationBuilder

This code

<!-- import StaticConfigureEndpointV4 -->

Becomes this

<!-- import StaticConfigureEndpointReplacementV5 -->

## Moved Performance monitoring and SLA to ConfigurationBuilder 

This code

<!-- import PerformanceMonitoringV4 -->

Becomes this

<!-- import PerformanceMonitoringV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2284

## Moved SendOnly mode to ConfigurationBuilder 

This code

<!-- import SendOnlyV4 -->

Becomes this

<!-- import SendOnlyV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/pull/2295

## Removed EndpointName to ConfigurationBuilder and removed Func overload

This code

<!-- import EndpointNameFluentV4 -->

Becomes this

<!-- import EndpointNameFluentV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/pull/2275

## Moved DoNotCreateQueues to a ConfigurationBuilder extension

This code

<!-- import DoNotCreateQueuesV4 -->

Becomes this

<!-- import DoNotCreateQueuesV5 -->

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/2263

## IWantCustomInitialization 

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/450
https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/351

## List of all API differences


[Version 4 to Version 5 differential](4to5diff.md)
