 * "Pub/Sub is not supported for Commands. They should be sent direct to their logical owner." - this exception is being thrown when attempting to publish a Command or subscribe to/unsubscribe from a Command.
 * "Events can have multiple recipient so they should be published." - this exception will occur when attempting to use 'Send()' to send an event.
 * "Reply is neither supported for Commands nor Events. Commands should be sent to their logical owner using bus.Send and bus. Events should be published." - this exception is thrown when attempting to reply with a Command or an Event.
 * "Cannot configure routing for type {name} because it is not considered a message. Message types have to either implement NServiceBus.IMessage interface or match a defined message convention." - this exception is thrown when configuring destination endpoint for a non-message type.
 * "Cannot configure routing for assembly {name} because it contains no types considered as messages. Message types have to either implement NServiceBus.IMessage interface or match a defined message convention." - this exception is thrown when configuring destination endpoint for an assembly which contains no types considered messages.
 * "Cannot configure routing for namespace {name} because it contains no types considered as messages..." - this exception is thrown when configuring destination endpoint for a namespace which contains no types considered messages.
 * "Cannot configure publisher for type {name} because it is not considered a message. Message types have to either implement NServiceBus.IMessage interface or match a defined message convention." - this exception is thrown when configuring publisher for a type that is not a message.
 * "Cannot configure publisher for type {name} because it is not considered an event. Event types have to either implement NServiceBus.IEvent interface or match a defined event convention." - this exception is thrown when configuring publisher for a type that is not an event.
 * "Cannot configure publisher for type {name} because it is a command." - this exception is thrown when configuring publisher for a command.